Update What's New in 6.6 (#1483)
couchbase/docs-server: modules/introduction/pages/whats-new.adoc

= What's New in Version 6.6?
:page-aliases: security:security-watsnew

Couchbase Server 6.6 adds features and enhancements to improve developer productivity, foster Cloud deployments, and enable operational analytics on globally distributed data. 

For more information about platform support changes, deprecation notifications, notable improvements, and fixed and known issues, refer to the xref:release-notes:relnotes.adoc[release notes].

[#new-features]
== New Features and Enhancements

_Quick Links_: <<whats-new-analytics-660>> | <<whats-new-eventing-660>> | <<whats-new-query-660>> | <<whats-new-tools-660>>

[#whats-new-analytics-660]
=== Analytics Service

==== External Datasets

> Couchbase Analytics Service adds the ability to access external data from AWS S3 storage buckets, thereby enabling you to combine and analyze data in realtime, sourced from both outside (AWS S3) and inside your Couchbase cluster(s). To learn more about the feature, see xref:analytics:5_ddl.adoc#External_datasets[External Datasets]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Couchbase Analytics Service adds the ability to access external data from AWS S3 storage buckets, thereby enabling you to combine and analyze data in real time, sourced from both outside (AWS S3) and inside your Couchbase cluster(s). To learn more about this feature, see xref:analytics:5_ddl.adoc#External_datasets[External Datasets]. 
```

==== Remote Links

> Couchbase Analytics Service introduces Remote Links which enable real-time operational analytics to obtain and analyze data from multiple Couchbase data clusters and datacenters in a separate cluster dedicated to the Analytics Service. To learn more about the feature, see xref:analytics:5_ddl.adoc#Remote_external_links[Remote Links and External Links].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Couchbase Analytics Service introduces Remote Links which enable real-time operational analytics to obtain and analyze data from outside the local Couchbase cluster, such as from a remote Couchbase cluster dedicated to the Analytics Service, or an external data source like Amazon S3. To learn more about this feature, see xref:analytics:5_ddl.adoc#Remote_external_links[Remote Links and External Links].
```

Author: I'm not sure this is accurate. I'd leave it out for now and will confirm tomorrow

[#whats-new-eventing-660]
=== Eventing Service

==== Timer Functionality

Couchbase Eventing Service introduces new Eventing timers that can be cancelled using the cancelTimer() function, or by creating a new timer with the same reference identifier as an existing timer. 

Recurring timers are also fully supported, and can easily be used to create repetitive logic by using a timer callback to create fresh timers. 

Timer scheduling enables timers to be created for days, weeks, or years in the future with no adverse performance impact. 

> For detailed examples on how to use Eventing timers, see xref:eventing:eventing-examples-cancel-overwrite-timer.adoc[Cancel or Overwrite Timer] and xref:eventing:eventing-examples-recurring-timer.adoc[Recurring Timer].

Reviewer: I don't see `eventing-examples-cancel-overwrite-timer` or `xref:eventing:eventing-examples-recurring-timer.adoc` in Jon's PRs yet, so these xrefs won't resolve until those files get in.

Reviewer: And by Jon's PRs I mean the ones that you created on his behalf.

Author: that is correct. We're incorporating editorial comments on Jon's PR and will merge before publishing to prod.

> For detailed examples on how to use Eventing timers, see xref:eventing:eventing-examples-cancel-overwrite-timer.adoc[Cancel or Overwrite Timer] and xref:eventing:eventing-examples-recurring-timer.adoc[Recurring Timer].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For detailed examples on how to use these new Eventing timers, see xref:eventing:eventing-examples-cancel-overwrite-timer.adoc[Cancel or Overwrite Timer] and xref:eventing:eventing-examples-recurring-timer.adoc[Recurring Timer].
```

==== OnDelete Handler and UI Enhancements

The OnDelete Handler provides a new "options" parameter to indicate if a document was deleted or expired. 

> Key Eventing statistics in the UI are now co-located with each Functions lifecycle control. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Key Eventing statistics in the UI are now co-located with each Function's lifecycle control. 
```

> These enhancements simplify the effort and code required to make robust business logic.

Reviewer: Will there be something to xref to?

Author: Will add later, once the eventing PR is merged

[#whats-new-query-660]
=== Query Service

==== Flex Index

> Futher to the N1QL and Full-Text Search (FTS) integration introduced in release 6.5, release 6.6 introduces N1QL Flex Index, which enables applications to leverage Couchbase FTS index transparently in N1QL statements. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Futher to the N1QL and Full-Text Search (FTS) integration introduced in release 6.5, release 6.6 introduces N1QL Flex Index, which enables applications to leverage a Couchbase FTS index transparently in N1QL statements. 
```

> Applications with ad hoc queries can now benefit from FTS index while using standard N1QL predicates. The USE INDEX (USE FTS) hint steers the Query Service to automatically choose an applicable FTS index that is best suited for the query. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Applications with ad hoc queries can now benefit from FTS indexes while using standard N1QL predicates. The USE INDEX (USE FTS) hint steers the Query Service to automatically choose an applicable FTS index that is best suited for the query. 
```

To learn more about the Flex Index feature, see xref:n1ql:n1ql-language-reference/flex-indexes.adoc[Flex Indexes].

==== Index Advisor 

> “Index Advisor” is promoted as a supported feature, and is now available as an online tutorial. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Index Advisor has been promoted out of Beta to a fully supported feature, and is also now available online as an interactive tutorial. 
```

The Index Advisor eliminates the guesswork in index creation and recommends changes to existing indexes wherever applicable. By providing recommendations for a specific query, or a set of queries from the Couchbase server log, it helps you create optimum indexes for your queries. 

The Index Advisor also enables you to monitor performance and manage indexes to reflect the current usage pattern. 

> Starting with this release, the Index Advisor is a supported feature and is available as an https://index-advisor.couchbase.com[online tutorial] too. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with this release, the Index Advisor is a supported production feature and is available through graphical interfaces like the https://index-advisor.couchbase.com[online tutorial (new)^] and the xref:tools:query-workbench.adoc#index-advisor[Query Workbench]. It can also be invoked by using the xref:n1ql:n1ql-language-reference/advise.adoc[ADVISE Statement].
```

==== TTL Support in Query

> Document expiration (Time to Live) is supported in Couchbase at both the bucket and the document level. The setting is intended for use on documents that can be automatically removed after a certain period of time. The expiration time is set during the document creation time using the Couchbase SDK. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Document expiration (Time to Live) is supported in Couchbase at both the bucket and the document level. The setting is intended for use on documents that can be automatically removed after a certain period of time. Before this release, expiration time was normally set during the document creation time using the Couchbase SDK. 
```

> With N1QL TTL, the expiration time can now be set and updated directly using the N1QL syntax. This enhancement allows administrators to change the document expiration policy after the document was created, or selectively choose documents for deletion via the document expiration mechanism.

Reviewer: Would be good to have an xref here to the syntax.

Author: waiting for link. will add later

[#whats-new-tools-660]
=== Tools

==== Non-root Install and Upgrade

Couchbase Server 6.6 standardizes the non-root install and upgrade for rpm packages to match the root install and upgrade procedures. By enabling you to easily install, upgrade, and maintain Couchbase Server as a non-root user, this update adds an extra layer of security and complies with the de facto standard in containerized environments.

To learn more, see xref:install:non-root.adoc[Non-Root Install and Upgrade].

==== Data Import via the UI

> The Couchbase Web Console provides a graphical interface to import data in JSON, CSV, or TSV formats. While the command-line utilities are recommended for high-performance data import and for importing large datasets, the graphical interface is enables quick data ingestion for development or testing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Couchbase Web Console now provides a graphical interface to import data in JSON, CSV, or TSV formats. While the command-line utilities are recommended for high-performance data import and for importing large datasets, the graphical interface enables quick data ingestion for development or testing.
```

> To learn more about importing data from the UI, see xref:manage:import-documents/import-documents.adoc[Import Documents].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about importing data using the Couchbase Web Console, see xref:manage:import-documents/import-documents.adoc[Import Documents].
```

==== Backup to AWS S3 or any S3 Compatible Object Store

> The `cbbackupmgr` utility adds support for object store and enables you to directly back up to and restore from AWS S3 or any other S3 compatible object store. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `cbbackupmgr` utility adds support for object store and enables you to directly back up to and restore from AWS S3 or any other S3-compatible object store. 
```

With the ability to backup large datasets directly to the cloud, you can leverage cloud-based object stores for your disaster recovery or archival use cases, or build containerized applications.  

To learn more about this feature, see xref:backup-restore:cbbackupmgr-backup.adoc#cloud-integration[cbbackupmgr backup] and xref:backup-restore:cbbackupmgr-restore.adoc#cloud-integration[cbbackupmgr restore].

==== Backup Info Command

> The `cbbackupmgr info` command provides additional information such as type of backup, start and end dates for the merged backups, and number of views, global secondary indexes (GSI), or FTS indexes. You can obtain the output in JSON format for automation purposes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `cbbackupmgr info` command provides additional information such as type of backup, start and end dates for merged backups, and the number of views, global secondary indexes (GSI), and FTS indexes. You can obtain the output in JSON format for automation purposes. 
```

> To learn more about the command, see xref:backup-restore:cbbackupmgr-info.adoc[cbbackupmgr info].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about the enhancements to this command, see xref:backup-restore:cbbackupmgr-info.adoc[cbbackupmgr info].
```

Author: This was added in 6.5.1, but is being highlighted now. So would prefer to leave the desc as is.

==== Backup Examine (Developer Preview)
 

> The `cbbackupmgr examine` is a Developer Preview feature to search one or more backups using doc IDs for a specific document. This command can be used to learn about what was previously backed up, to identify the backup to restore, to verify a document in the backup, and also to review the historic view of document transformation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `cbbackupmgr examine` command is a new feature in Developer Preview that allows you to search one or more backups for a specific document using its ID. This command can be used to learn about what was previously backed up, to identify the backup to restore, to verify a document in the backup, and also to review the historic view of document transformation. 
```
